---
layout: post
title: Overall Reflection
status: done
type: post
published: false
comments: true
date: '1/7/24 17:00 '
---




Overall, my time at Iowa State University has prepared me very well for entering the industry. The foundational classes I have taken in computer engineering have given me a thorough understanding of how computers are design and work. This allows me to effectively work on complex and dynamic problems in those areas. I have also gained a large amount of experience working in teams of diverse interests, experiences and skill levels that will certainly be helpful in the real world.

  

One of the most interesting classes I took at ISU was the CPRE 234 which focused with the ethical and business concerns involving cyber security. With the space being so new there are incredibly interesting questions around what is ethical, what is legal and what should be done with those two categories do not fully overlap. One particularly interesting area deals with the proper way of disclosing vulnerabilities in commonly used software to the company and the general public. This is a vastly complicated process that has to take into account multiple stakeholders. Ultimately because the cyber field is so new the number of questions to be answered is massive. From the environmental impacts of crytpo currency, data privacy, freedom of expression on the platform dominated internet and the economic and ethical questions of digital piracy.

  

One of the most important skills I have learned over the last 4 years was the ability to take available information in the form of journal and blog articles and use that information to complete complex problems. In particular the in depth research done in phrack and liveoverflow have been foundational to my success at learning the skills needed to complete my projects.

  

These external information sources have helped me progress far beyond what I could have just learned in school. The biggest example at this moment is the sektor7 red team tooling development series that I am making my way through. These skills will be invaluable to my career and the confidence gained in self education will certainly help a ton and has made me a life long learner.

  

One large driver of this self education is from my role as the president of the information assurance student group here at ISU. As the president I have to be knowledgeable about current cyber security topics and be able to communicate my understanding to a wide variety of skill levels. This role as president has been fundamental to my college experience and has been a massive driver of my education.

  

  

Overall, I am very happy with how my college career turned out. Going back I think I would have spent a little more time focused in my independent research rather then focusing as much on GPA. The classes I took provided a solid foundation, but I believe I could have a much deeper understanding of my field if I spent some of my time on independent in depth research rather then moving assignments from a 87% to a 94%.
